Beautiful Adornment of the Earth: A Praise
by Mipham Rinpoche

sa, sa yi nyingpo dro kün jesu dzin
Svā. Kṣitigarbha, Essence of the Earth, you who nurture all beings,
sa zhi zhindu nam mang yönten ten
Like the underlying ground, you support qualities of many kinds,
sa sum rekong yizhin norbü tsul
Like a wish-granting gem, you fulfil the hopes of the three worlds.
sa chü wangchuk khyö la chaktsal tö
Lord of the ten bhūmis, to you I offer homage and praise.

sa né sa dren gyalwé sa la gö
From stage to stage you lead, establishing at the level of the victorious,
sachü tsimen lotok gyün pel zhing
Like the earth’s nourishing essence that yields a steady flow of produce,
sa di nam mang jorpé yong kangwé
This earth that is replete with riches and many forms of bounty—
sa yi lha chok khyö la chaktsal tö
To you, supreme deity of the earth, I offer homage and praise.

bumzang paksam shing dang dzokden trin
You are like an excellent vase, a wish-fulfilling tree,
dütsi chu tso jizhin gang gi khyö
Clouds of perfection, or a lake of healing nectar:
drenpa dé la pal du lek nepa
To think of you brings lasting splendour and magnificence.
tukjé daknyi khyö la chaktsal tö
Embodiment of compassion, to you I offer homage and praise.

rabjam sé ché gyalwé yönten chok
With supreme qualities of the infinite victors and their heirs,
namkha dzö kyi ngadak khyö chikpu
You alone are the sovereign lord of the treasury of space,
gyalsé tsul gyi tayé zhing nam su
And in the realms of the bodhisattvas’ limitless ways,
gyalwé dzepa tadak kyong la dü
You uphold the victorious buddhas’ activity—to you I bow.

pakmé yönten norbü özer gyi
With the jewel-like rays of your boundless qualities,
nyikmé güpa tadak tendu nyil
You overwhelm all faults and failings in this degenerate time,
püntsok dé zhi pal gyi ngön towé
And promote the glory of fourfold wellbeing.1
lab chen trinlé dzé la chaktsal tö
To you who perform great waves of enlightened action, I offer homage and praise.

jamyang jikten wangchuk kuntuzang
Instead of many aeons of manifold veneration and prayer
mipampa sok gyalsé sempa chok
To Mañjughoṣa, Lokeśvara,2 Samantabhadra,
nam mang kalpar chö ching soltab lé
Ajita3 and the rest—supreme bodhisattva heirs of the victorious ones,
khyö chik yütsam drenpé rendö nam
To think, just for an instant, of you alone will fulfil all hopes and desires.
yizhin tsol la khyepar pak zhé su
For this, you have been praised by the victorious ones
gyalwé ngakpa gyalsé tuwo chok
As pre-eminent in the bestowal of wishes—O foremost heir,
gyalwa nam dang yermé khyö töpé
Inseparable from the victorious, through praising you,
dak la ji dö pal nam lek tsol dzö
May you grant the excellent splendour of everything I wish for and desire!

sa sum dro di depé tob nyé ching
May beings throughout the three worlds discover the strength of faith;
sa yi wangchuk khyi kyi jesu dzin
May they be guided by you, the powerful lord of the earth;
sachü pal pel sateng dewé khyab
May the earth’s nourishing powers increase and happiness pervade the world;
sa né sar drö sa chok drubpar shok
And may we progress from stage to stage and reach the level that is supreme!

Mipham Jampal Gyepa arranged these verses, which are as numerous as the eight auspicious substances,
on the 27th (also known as ‘the band’)4 of the eighth month of the Fire Horse year.5
May virtue and excellence increase!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.

Version: 2.0-20220428
↑ i.e., worldly values, riches, sensory pleasures, and liberation.↑ i.e., Avalokiteśvara↑ i.e.,
Maitreya↑ The number 27 can be referred as the band or wheel (’khor lo) in numerical synonymy
because there are said to be twenty-seven constellations within the band of constellations.↑
i.e., 1906.